BlackRock Interview Experience [Anshdeep Shrivastav]

Round 1 – Online Assessment [All MCQs]
(350 candidates shortlisted for OA)
The assessment had 4 sections:
• Around 20 questions from SQL
• 20 questions from aptitude
• 20 questions from flowcharts/reasoning
• 20 questions from programming (Questions on B-tree/AVL Trees, etc.)
Result: ~ 50 candidates selected for interviews

Round 2 – Technical Interview (~30-35 min approx.)
Interviewers:
• Interviewer 1 – 9 years experience
• Interviewer 2 – 4 years experience (joined 10 min later)

They started with my introduction. I gave a brief introduction, talked about my projects, DSA stats, etc.
From my resume, he asked about one of my projects and told me to explain what I had worked on. I had mentioned logistic regression under one of my projects, so he went deep into it—why I chose logistic regression, what if I had selected a decision tree classifier (asked me to answer numerically/technically). He also asked about the loss function (which loss function we use and why, etc.) and a bit about gradient descent.
After that, he asked me about CNN (also from my project) and a few questions from backend (easy ones)—status codes and rate limiting.
Then he asked me which language I code in. I said C++.

Questions asked:
• Call by reference and call by value (he asked the question in a twisted way, but the answer was easy)
• 4 pillars of OOPs
Then ask me questions from DBMS:
o NoSQL vs SQL (also asked scenario-based questions here)
o What is indexing
o Transactions in SQL

Then moved to Data Structures:
o "What do you know in data structures?" I told him arrays...to...graphs
o Gave me a scenario and asked which data structure I would use (answer was stack)
o Asked me to tell the difference between trees and graphs using examples
o Asked me to explain how Dijkstra's algorithm works (not make me code, i just explained him algo)

He mentioned "we have only 2 min left," then gave me a very easy DSA question [Group Anagrams ~ LeetCode Easy]. He didn't make me code; just told me to explain the approach.

Round 3 – Technical Interview 2 (~50 min approx.)
Interviewer: Director at BlackRock

In this round (what I felt), they didn't want to deep dive into tech skills but wanted to understand how I approach a solution and how I communicate.
I was nervous, so he calmed me down.
Started asking about my project (somewhere in the resume, GenAI was mentioned).
Asked me to explain what GenAI is (seemed like he wanted to test my communication skills), then asked how I would have implemented it if I had developed this before the AI era. Then randomly asked me to explain how this whole AI thing works. I told him about vector embeddings, cosine similarity, llms, encoder-decoder, etc. I somewhere mentioned tokens, so he asked me what a token is, etc. [Yapped for 10-15 mins.]

Then he gave me a scenario and told me to explain how I would implement that feature. I gave one approach, then he told me to think of another approach better than this. He made me think of a 3rd approach, but I said the 2nd was the best approach available in the market (he later criticized me on this because he wanted me to keep thinking).

After that, he asked me about authentication, authorization, JWT tokens, sessions, refresh tokens, etc., including a few scenario-based questions.
(~30 min done)

He started asking behavioral questions. In my resume, I had mentioned "leadership" and under POS, I had written "leading a club," so he started asking questions on that:
• Tell me a scenario where you showed your leadership
• Tell me a scenario where you realized you took a wrong decision and how you corrected it
He saw "finance club mentioned" and asked why I joined the finance club. I said because I have an interest in it. He told me to explain one finance concept I recently learned. I explained ETFs to him (because BlackRock is also into ETFs “iShares” ). He was convinced with my explanation. I also explained Futures & Options to him.

Asked me, "What motivates you to learn something new?" [I yapped]
I had earlier mentioned a consulting project I worked on, so he asked me: "If given a chance, which idea/cause would you work on as a business? (Seems like he wanted to know how I think)

He was convinced with all my 20-min behavioural session.

[ Ending Note ]
He was literally a very humble guy. He said, "I am sorry if you felt I haven't heard your answer properly because I was noting your remarks."
I also acted humbly and said sorry if I unknowingly made any mistake.

Then he gave me 2 suggestions:
1. "Don't call me sir; in corporate we don't use 'sir'—call everyone by their name"
2. Never stop thinking—you stopped after thinking of 2 approaches, but if you had thought more, a better solution might have come

[Interview End]

Final Result
14 selected -> I was one of them!
