Round 1: Online Assessment 
This round consists of general aptitude, technical and coding questions 
The 2 coding questions were on easy to medium level :- 
1) The first question was based on prefix sum approach 
2) The 2nd question is to find no.of unique Hamiliton cycles in a graph 
Each section has specific time allotted . 
I have solved all aptitude ,technical and coding questions in the give time 

Round 2:Techincal Interview (30-40min) 
In this round i was asked a lot of questions based on cs fundamentals(oops,os,dbms,cn) and also give some code and asked to predict the output ,and a brief about the projects mentioned in resume 
The coding question asked to me was 
https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-window-substring/description/ 
I was asked to tell the approach and sked to write the pseudo code and told to dry run based on the given input along with the complexities( TIP:- start with brute force approach even if you know the optimal solution) 

Round 3: HR Round (15min) 
This was a very casual discussion about my strengths ,weakness, about the company 
After 3-4 days results are announced 

TIPS : 
Be clam and don't take stress throughout the process 
Be consistent and develop your coding skills along with communication skills 
Don't neglect and never ever take cs fundamentals for granted, one should have a proper grip on them 

PROCESS TO PPO 
Round 1- 
Your interviews are scheduled based on your mentior/manager reviews . 
Round 2- 
This was a technical round held in office only. 
I was asked questions on cs fundamentals in depth, about my project and coding questions on linked list . 
I was also asked situation based questions. 
NOTE:- this is an elimination round . 

Round-2:- 
This was manager round held in office. 
I was asked some questions like what you have worked on, what's your motive to work, how do you manage stress ,where do you see yourself in next 5 years and later she explained me about the 6 month internship and eedp program and ask how well are u motivated and manage to work. 

Round-3: 
This was an hr round . 
Again regarding my project ,ge principals ,what are you learnings technical and soft skills and what are the three things unique I have learnt . 
After 1 week we got the result, and got selected.
