Interview Experience Sixt R&D

There were a total of four rounds of discussion : two technical, one managerial, and one HR round, each being an elimination round.

OA Round :
There were 2 Coding questions and 15 technical and aptitude questions. I was able to solve all MCQs and 1 Coding question.
The MCQs were of moderate difficulty , the 1st coding question was "Given a rooted tree where each node has a value and I am having a budget B, I need to report the length of the longest path from node to root such that sum of values does not exceed budget" , I solved this with DFS and Binary search.
The 2nd question was standard Game Theory that involved Sprague Grundy Theorem , I had not studied it so was unable to solve it.
Just after 15 mins of the OA , I was called for interviews.

Round - 1
It started with my brief introduction , and the interviewer was very nice and asked me about the OA's coding questions. I said I liked the questions though the 2nd one was something I didn't expect in an OA. He said that it was very easy if you know the Theorem , I said cheekily, only if I did.
Then he asked me to implement String to Integer conversion with negative , non digit characters. I started with my approach and then wrote the pseudocode and he was satisfied.

The 2nd question was this -
https://leetcode.com/problems/furthest-building-you-can-reach/description/.
Initially the constraints he gave me were small so I explained the brute force approach and after he increased them , I went to the optimal solution and wrote the pseudocode for the same. He was good with the approach and implementation.
Then he asked me about RDBMS , Normalization , Make a table of your choice and Normalise it. I answered all these questions correctly.
Finally he said that he is good and if I have any questions for him? I asked about his role in the company and he explained about it thoroughly in 5 mins

Round - 2
The 2nd round happened the next day and it started with the explanation of one of my projects. I explained about it in 5-7 mins and then we moved for a coding question.
The questions was kind of an LLD question "Design an elevator system for a building with n floors and m elevators" , this was something new for me but I went of with explaining my approach and the tradeoffs and then implementing it from scratch , during the explanation I would check on with the interviewer but he was completely silent , He just said, this is your problem , you can solve it however you want. Then he was good with it and moved to another question , this was a standard flood fill question , I quickly explained my approach and coded it in my IDE (I wrote the 1st question in pen and paper and at the end of it I had asked him why cant we code in our IDEs , He said he never asked me to write in pen and paper , it was entirely on me, So I chose my IDE for the 2nd question).
He was satisfied with the approach and code and my interview was over. He asked me if I had any questions for him , I replied I had none since I had all my questions answered in the PPT and 1st round.

Round - 3 :
After 15 mins I was called for the 3rd round , This was again a DSA round , 1st questions was "Given an array of jobs with their start and end times and associated profits , I needed to maximize profit and the jobs can't overlap", I started with explaining my DP approach and did multiple dry runs, he wanted me to optimize space to O(1) but I kept telling him that this can't be done but he kept insisting , so I agreed and said I am not aware of it.
The 2nd question was the easiest one "Given a matrix with some empty cells and some blocked cells I just needed to find out if I can reach the bottom right cell if I start from top left, Down and right movement was only allowed" , Standard DFS , I explained him the approach and he was good , No need to code it he said. With this the 3rd round was over.

HR Round (Round - 4)
After some mins again I was called for the HR round , this was the only online round for me , The HR round included a discussion over my project , How would I scale it , how would I pitch it for business , How can I sell it , Who would be my target audience and a demo of the project. Then it was about myself , my family , hobbies , and what I know about the company , I answered all these and he was very happy with me.

Tips for Interviews :
1. Be confident.
2. For DSA questions, firstly make sure that you have understood the question properly. Do it by taking 1-2 examples and explain how you’ll get the correct answer for them.
3. Start from brute force, then head towards the optimal approach. Also tell them time & space complexity for all the approaches.
4. Lastly, dry run your code for any testcase and also brief them how your code will work correctly for edge cases.
5. For technical questions, explain it using some real life examples.
