Sixt R&D Interview Experience
Jiya Taank

There were a total of four interview rounds- two technical rounds, one managerial, one HR.
ONLINE ASSESSMENT :
It consisted of 14 MCQs (from aptitude, operating system, dbms, computer network ) and two DSA questions (first was a 2d DP problem relating to modified version of no. of paths in a matrix, second was binary tree problem).

1st TECHNICAL INTERVIEW:
After introduction, interviewer asked few questions relating to project mentioned in resume, then jumped to DSA question .
1. Given a binary tree, ( root and target node), and an integer k, return all nodes at a distance k from target node. – asked approach , then asked to write complete code .
2. Given a binary matrix (nxm), 1-land, 0-water, return no. of unique islands.
(if an island is found, then all its mirror images won’t be considered as unique),
Mirror images with respect to x axis, y axis, line x=y.
In this question , he asked only approach.
At the end he invited me to ask any questions if I had.

2nd TECHNICAL INTERVIEW:
Since he already had my resume ,feedback from previous interviewer etc, he directly jumped to questions.
First, asked what data structures I was familiar with, if I was comfortable with DP.
Then asked basic questions- difference between binary tree and binary search tree, what is balanced binary search tree.
Then asked two DSA question:
1. Given a binary tree in array form, convert it to balanced binary search tree.
Asked to write the pseudo code.
2. Question from monotonic stack ,” maximal rectangle”
https://leetcode.com/problems/maximal-rectangle/description/
Asked, first, the approach, then told to write complete code with all helper functions, then asked line by line dry run with the example he gave. ( He kept asking questions in between, wherever he was having confusion).
At the end he invited me to ask any questions if I had.

MANAGERIAL INTERVIEW:
Directly jumped to DSA question:
1. Given an array containing positive and negative integers, rearrange them as positive -negative alternatively, not necessarily sorted. – (in O(N) time complexity, and O(1) space complexity).
Asked approach, then told to write the complete code.
2. Given a linked list, first detect if there is loop in it, if loop is there , find the node and break the loop.
Asked to write complete code.
After that asked few questions from OS, DBMS, OOPs. Then asked if I had any questions.

HR INTERVIEW:
This was pure HR round, questions asked:
1.How was your experience so far.
2.Few questions regarding project ( non-technical ).
3.Strengths and weakness.
4.Family Background.
5.Last book I read apart from course/tech books, to which I replied regarding my hobby of reading fictional novels in leisure time, and about the last book I read, a little about its author, genre.
6. ( follow-up from previous) What is one take away that you want to implement from the story of that novel.
7. What you like to do to release your stress, or one thing that helps you calm, relax after a busy day.
8.How comfortable are you to move to Bangalore.
9.Last time you travelled out of station without your family.
Asked if I had any questions.
