UKG INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE
Software Developer Intern (6-month Internship + (PBO) PPO)

1. Online Assessment (OA) (90 mins) 
The OA round had 20 questions (19 MCQs + 1 coding problem). 

MCQs: Focused on CS fundamentals, Data structures & algorithms (hashing) and time complexities of certain sorting algorithms. It also included questions such as predicting the output of a given code snippet.

Coding Problem: It was based on the divide and conquer approach and was of medium difficulty.

The OA shortlists were declared after about 15 days, right after the Pre-Placement Talk (PPT). The interviews began soon after, starting at 9:30 AM and continuing till 7 PM.

2. Technical Round 1
Duration: Around 45-50 mins
It began with a brief self-introduction, followed by a question to write an SQL query that returns the name of the employee with the fifth-highest salary from the employee table.

DSA: -Write the code for sliding window algo and explain how/where it is used
 -Then I was given one input and was asked to write a code to check valid parenthesis.

CS fundamentals: There were a lot of questions from OS, DBMS and some from system design (I can’t recall all the questions right now but here are some)
o What is Normalisation and explain its types
o CAP theorem, SOLID properties
o Explain ACID properties
o Explain Round Robin Algorithm and why is it used (the interviewer tried to check my understanding with some counter questions but I stayed confident with my answer)
o Preemptive scheduling and which CPU scheduling algorithms are preemptive in nature.

From projects: After explaining my projects I was asked a few questions on JavaScript and React:
o Some project specific questions like how did you implement encryption here
o Difference between Let and Var
o What are events in JavaScript, give examples
o What are hooks in React.

Then they asked if I had any questions for them and concluded.

3. Technical Round 2
Duration: Around 45 mins
DSA: 
o Given a paragraph as input. Write the code to extract and list all the words that are which read same from both sides (palindrome).
o Write a program to check if two given words are anagrams of each other, I was asked multiple approaches for this.

Puzzle: How many times the hour & minute hands of a clock make a straight line i) in a day ii) in 6 hours
The other question was the two watches cost price problem

Project: in depth discussion of my projects, explain the whole working and what tech stack is used, why did you decide to do this specific project
Explain the backend part and I was asked why I chose Express and Node.js for the backend and how they work in my project
What are the 3-5 ways to make it better, what all features you can add to it if I want xyz things

General Questions: I was asked why do I want to go in software as I am an ECE student – why did I choose ECE?
Where do you see yourself in 5 years.

Conceptual: Then he asked a few of questions related to AI one being explain what is AI (explain it like you will explain to your mother)
In your opinion AI is good or bad - How do you use it and a few follow up questions on this.

4. Managerial Round
How am I feeling today.
How I thought I had performed in the interviews so far.
There was a discussion on my Project and a few questions:
o Explain about your projects- I was asked about API keys, their encryption, and how paid usage models work)
o Motivation behind my project 
o Problems solved by the project

Behavioral Questions:
Why did I choose engineering?
Why do you want to go into software despite being from electronics
Are you sure you don’t want to pursue electronics, considering that the industry is booming, with several new developments, opportunities, and a promising future?
Family background, why job despite having a business background.
What would you do if you had multiple important tasks scheduled under a tight deadline.

5. HR Round
Started with my brief intro then he asked Questions on details of the Pre placement talk:
o Name 5 of our customers
o What are our Products
o What values does UKG stand for?
Whether I would be willing to relocate to any of their office locations (always say YES)
Who my idol is and what 5 qualities I would take from them.
What 5 things I would like to improve about myself.
There was a discussion about my hobbies and what I plan to do next.
Then he asked if I had any questions for him. I asked what the most interesting or challenging problem he had solved at UKG was. He proudly shared an example of a challenge he had solved within a short span of time.

Then the interviews were concluded and everyone was supposed to wait in the PPT hall.

Key takeaways: 
- Know every word written in your resume. Be prepared to explain all projects, technical terms, and tools listed.
- Thoroughly prepare your projects, know how each and everything is being implemented
- Revise core concepts like OS, DBMS, and JavaScript thoroughly.
- Practice puzzles + prepare general HR questions
- Learn about the company, its values, and why you want to work there.
